.TH TWIN 3
.SH NAME
.PP
TWIN - Terminal Windows Library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
#include <windows.h>

void    init_int(field, line, col, minval, maxval, prompt, help, int_ptr)
field_t *field;
unsigned line, col;
int     minval, maxval;
char   *prompt, *help;
int    *int_ptr;

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B init_int()
initializes an int field for the
.B screen_input()
function.  

.cu
Parameters:

.cu
field
is the address of one element in an array of
.B field_t
records.  ( See
.B screen_input()
for more information about the
field_t structure )

.cu
line
and
.cu
col
give the coordinates within the window where the input prompt will
be displayed.  The data will be input to the immediate right of
the input prompt, at coordinates [line,col+strlen(prompt)].  You can adjust
the input location by padding the prompt with trailing spaces.

.cu
.B minval
and
.B maxval
are the minimum and maximum values that screen_input() will
accept as input for this field.
screen_input() will reject any digits typed that would
put the input value outside the specified range.

.cu
prompt
is the input prompt which will be displayed alongside the input data.

.cu
help
is a message which is displayed in the input window when
this field is visited.  The exact location of the help message
is specified when calling
.B screen_input().

.cu
int_ptr
is the address where the value will be copied by screen_input().
The incoming value at int_ptr will be used as the default value.
If the first character typed is a digit, '.', or '-', then the
default value will be erased and replaced by the new value typed.
Otherwise, the value may be edited using the cursor motion features
described under
.B screen_input().

.SH PITFALLS

.B field
must be the address of a valid array element.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <windows.h>

#define NAME_LEN    40
#define GENDER_LEN  6

int     get_data(win_t *win,char name[],char gender[],int *age);

int     main()

{
    char    name[NAME_LEN+1] = "",gender[GENDER_LEN+1] = "";
    int     age = 0;
    term_t  *term;
    win_t   *win;
    
    /* Initialize terminal */
    term = init_term(stdin,stdout,stderr,NULL);
    
    /* Create input window */
    win = new_win(term,10,60,10,10);
    wborder(win);
    
    /* Input data */
    get_data(win,name,gender,&age);
    
    /* Free window */
    del_win(&win);
    return 0;
}


int     get_data(win_t *win,char name[],char gender[],int *age)

{
    field_t fields[3];
    char    *genders[3] = {"Male","Female",NULL};
    
    /* Initialize fields */
    init_string(fields+0,2,2,NAME_LEN,CAPITALIZED,"Full name: ",
        " Enter first name, last name, and middle initial. ",name);
    init_enum(fields+1,3,2,GENDER_LEN,genders,"Gender: ",
        " Press <space> to toggle ",gender);
    init_int(fields+2,4,2,0,130,"Age: ",
        " Enter your age in years ",age);
    
    /* Input the data */
    screen_input(win,fields,3,WLINES(win)-3);
    return 0;
}

.SH FILES

libtwin.a, windows.h, terminal.h, image.h
.SH SEE\ ALSO

twin, termcap, terminfo, cc, ld, curses, ioctl, sgtty, termio, termios
.SH AUTHOR

Jason W. Bacon
