.TH TWIN 3
.SH NAME
.PP
TWIN - Terminal Windows Library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
#include <windows.h>

void    init_enum(field, line, col, len, list, prompt, help, enum_ptr)
field_t *field;
int     line, col, len;
char    *list[], *prompt, *help, *enum_ptr;

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B init_enum()
initializes a field for the
.B screen_input()
function.  Enumerated fields are strings, selected in the screen_input()
function from among the array of strings
.B list,
by pressing the space bar to toggle from one string
to the next.

.cu
Parameters:

.cu
field
is the address of one element in an array of
.B field_t
records.  ( See
.B screen_input()
for more information about the
field_t structure )

.cu
line
and
.cu
col
give the coordinates within the window where the input prompt will
be displayed.  The data will be input to the immediate right of
the input prompt, at coordinates [line,col+strlen(prompt)].  You can adjust
the input location by padding the prompt with trailing spaces.

.cu
len
is the maximum length of the string to be input, i.e. the size
of the array
.cu
enum_ptr.
If the string selected from list is longer than len, it will be truncated
to fit the array.
This is primarily a safety measure to remind you to use a large enough
array for enum_ptr.

.cu
list
is an array of pointers to the strings available for selection.
The last pointer in the last should be set to NULL so that screen_input()
will know when to toggle back to the beginning of the list.

.cu
prompt
is the input prompt which will be displayed alongside the input data.

.cu
help
is a message which is displayed in the input window when
this field is visited.  The exact location of the help message
is specified when calling
.B screen_input().

.cu
enum_ptr
is the address where the selected string will be copied by screen_input().
The incoming string at enum_ptr will be used as the starting point
if the string matches one of those in
.cu
list.
If enum_ptr is NULL, points to '\\0', or points to a string that is not in
list, the rotation will begin with list[0].

.SH PITFALLS

.B field
must be the address of a valid array element.
The last element in
.B list
must be NULL.
.B len
must be less than or equal to the size of
.B enum_ptr.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <windows.h>

#define NAME_LEN    40
#define GENDER_LEN  6

int     get_data(win_t *win,char name[],char gender[],int *age);

int     main()

{
    char    name[NAME_LEN+1] = "",gender[GENDER_LEN+1] = "";
    int     age = 0;
    term_t  *term;
    win_t   *win;
    
    /* Initialize terminal */
    term = init_term(stdin,stdout,stderr,NULL);
    
    /* Create input window */
    win = new_win(term,10,60,10,10);
    wborder(win);
    
    /* Input data */
    get_data(win,name,gender,&age);
    
    /* Free window */
    del_win(&win);
    return 0;
}


int     get_data(win_t *win,char name[],char gender[],int *age)

{
    field_t fields[3];
    char    *genders[3] = {"Male","Female",NULL};
    
    /* Initialize an enumerated field */
    init_string(fields+0,2,2,NAME_LEN,CAPITALIZED,"Full name: ",
        " Enter first name, last name, and middle initial. ",name);
    init_enum(fields+1,3,2,GENDER_LEN,genders,"Gender: ",
        " Press <space> to toggle ",gender);
    init_int(fields+2,4,2,0,130,"Age: ",
        " Enter your age in years ",age);
    
    /* Input the data */
    screen_input(win,fields,3,WLINES(win)-3);
    return 0;
}

.SH FILES

libtwin.a, windows.h, terminal.h, image.h
.SH SEE\ ALSO

twin, termcap, terminfo, cc, ld, curses, ioctl, sgtty, termio, termios
.SH AUTHOR

Jason W. Bacon
