.TH TWIN 3
.SH NAME
.PP
TWIN - Terminal Windows Library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
#include <windows.h>

win_t       *new_win(terminal, lines, cols, screen_line, screen_col)
term_t      *terminal;
unsigned    lines, cols, screen_line, screen_col;

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B new_win()
creates a new window on the specified terminal.

.cu
PARAMETERS

.cu
terminal
is the terminal on which the window will be created.  It must be initialized
using init_term() before any windows can be created on it.

.cu
lines
and
.cu
cols
give the size of the new window.

.cu
screen_line
and
.cu
screen_col
give the location on the terminal screen of the window's
upper-left corner.

.SH RETURN\ VALUE
.B new_win()
returns the address of the new window structure if successful, or
NULL if the new window cannot be created for any reason.

.SH PITFALLS

Make sure
.B terminal
is initialized.  The location and size must be chosen so that the window
fits entirely in the terminal screen.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
    #include <windows.h>

    int     main()

    {
        term_t  *term;
        win_t   *win;
    
        /* Initialize terminal */
        term = init_term(stdin,stdout,stderr,NULL);
    
        /* Create a new window */
        win = new_win(term,10,60,8,10);
    
        /* Clear window */
        wclear_win(win);
        
        /* Draw border around window */
        WSET_MODE(win,BOLD_MODE);
        wborder(win);
        
        /* Print a blinking message in the window */
        WSET_MODE(win,BLINK_MODE);
        wprint_center(win,4,"Hello, world!");
        
        /* Wait for user to press a key */
        WSET_MODE(win,NORMAL_MODE);
        wprint_center(win,5,"Press return to continue...");
        wgetc(win);
        
        /* Delete window and terminal and quit */
        del_win(&win);
        del_term(&term);
        return 0;
    }
.SH FILES

libtwin.a, windows.h, terminal.h, image.h
.SH SEE\ ALSO

twin, termcap, terminfo, cc, ld, curses, ioctl, sgtty, termio, termios
.SH AUTHOR

Jason W. Bacon
