.TH TWIN 3
.SH NAME
.PP
TWIN - Terminal Windows Library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
#include <windows.h>

int     wgetint(win, incoming, min, max, base, lastkey)
win_t   *win;
int     incoming, min, max, base, *lastkey;

short   wgetshort(win, incoming, min, max, base, lastkey)
win_t   *win;
int     incoming, min, max, base, *lastkey;

long    wgetlong(win, incoming, min, max, base, lastkey)
win_t   *win;
long    incoming, min, max;
int     base, *lastkey;

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION

These three functions exhibit identical behavior.  In the text
below, wgetint() may also refer to wgetshort() or wgetlong().

The
.B wgetint()
function inputs an integer through the window specified by win.

The programmer can specify both minimum and maximum values.
If the value entered is less than
.B min,
wgetint() will return min, and if it is less than
.B max,
wgetint() will return max.

.cu
PARAMETERS:

.B win
is the window in which the value is entered.

.B incoming
is the default value of the number.  This value will be displayed
in the window when wgetint() is called.  If the first key pressed during
input is an input-terminator, (see
.B screen_input(3))
then wgetint() will return the incoming value.

.B min
specifies the smallest value that wgetint() will return.  If a smaller
number is entered, wgetint() will return
.B min
instead.

.B max
specifies the largest value that wgetint() will return.  If a larger
number is entered, wgetint() will return
.B max
instead.

.B base
is the base the number should be entered in.  The legal range of
.B base
is determined by the limits of the
.B strtol()
function, and is usually 2 to 36.  If the base is 0, the value may be
entered in decimal, octal, or hexadecimal in accordance with
strtol() and C language conventions.

.B lastkey
should receive the address of an integer, into which wgetint()
will place the key code of the input terminating key.
(See screen_input() for information on terminating keys)
    
.SH RETURN\ VALUE

.B wgetint() returns the value entered if it is between min
and max.  If less than min, wgetint() returns min.  If greater than
max, wgetint() returns max.

.SH PITFALLS

Be sure to use the apropriate function for your program's needs.
The short and int types should both be regarded as 16 bit integers
where range is concerned. (-32768 to +32767)

Using short may cause performance-degrading promotions to occur.

Similarly, using long may require performance-degrading
multiple precision arithmetic at the machine level, but
will provide 32-bit integer range. (+/- 4.3 billion)

.SH EXAMPLE

.nf
    int     main()
    
    {
        win_t   *win;
        int     age, default_age = 0, min_age = 0, max_age = 120,
                last_key;
        ...
        wputs(win,"Enter your age: ");
        age = wgetint(win,default_age,min_age,max_age,10,&last_key);
        ...
    }
.fi 

.SH FILES

libtwin.a, windows.h, terminal.h, image.h
.SH SEE\ ALSO

twin, termcap, terminfo, cc, ld, curses, ioctl, sgtty, termio, termios
.SH AUTHOR

Jason W. Bacon
